---
permalink: /research/
title: "Research Statement"
---
## Introduction

I am a mathematician currently conducting research in quantum information theory. I am particularly motivated by interesting questions in combinatorics and graph theory, especially where visual and geometric intuition can be leveraged. This approach to problem solving was the foundation of my graduate research in knot theory and topology, and plays just as pivotal a role in my current research into resource optimization for quantum communication. I am broadly interested in pursuing the types of research questions where this intuition is useful.

## Doctoral Research at the University of Iowa (2015-2021, United States)

My doctoral research focused on the tabulation and classification of the knot theoretic structures known as tangles. Tangles can be understood most generally as the building blocks of mathematical knots. The enumeration of knots has been the quintessential goal of knot theory since its inception, and tangles were originally introduced as a tool for cataloging knot constructions. Tangles can be divided into different types based on the complexity of their structure, the most fundamental of which are known as _rational tangles_. Any tangle can be decomposed into a combination of simpler rational tangles, but this construction is challenging to describe and non-unique in general. This represents an interesting combinatorial question: how can we develop a language for describing generic tangle constructions in terms of rational tangles?

This was the central question underlying my doctoral thesis. Mathematical graphs are the tool I used to answer it. The construction of a complicated tangle can be represented graphically, wherein vertices represent rational tangles and edges denote connections between them. Based on this idea, I developed several variations of graph-based _tangle diagram notations_ which could be used to describe the construction of any tangle, along with a program for computing these in practice. Furthermore, I developed a prototype web-accessible database recording constructions, diagrams, and notations for all tangles in certain classified families with up to 11 crossings.

## Postdoctoral Research at INRIA (2021-2023, France)

After completing my graduate studies, I accepted a postdoctoral position in the COSMIQ Unit at INRIA Paris, where I transitioned from pure mathematics research into quantum information. I joined a project in quantum error correction, where my background in topology combined with undergraduate research experience in classical error correction made me ideally positioned to contribute to the team’s work. The principal research result from my time at INRIA was the development of a decoding algorithm for a certain class of quantum low-density parity check (LDPC) code.

LDPC codes in particular are considered promising candidates for practical applications in fault-tolerant quantum computing (FTQC) thanks to their lower qubit overhead than other popular candidates such as the surface code. Implementing such a code in practice requires the use of a fast decoder capable of correcting errors faster than they can accumulate. Modeling erasure errors (detectable qubit loss) as a graph problem, we developed an algorithm known as the VH-decoder for correcting erasure errors in Hypergraph Product (HGP) codes, a type of LDPC code. First leveraging a linear-time classical decoding algorithm known as the peeling decoder, the VH-decoder post-processes partially corrected errors where the peeling decoder becomes stuck. The key advantage comes from reducing large errors into separate, smaller decoding problems that can be solved efficiently. In comparison with the benchmark maximum-likelihood decoder using Gaussian elimination, the VH-decoder reduced computational complexity by an order of magnitude without sacrificing decoding performance. This work was eventually published in the journal _Quantum_ in 2024.

## Postdoctoral Research at OIST (2024-present, Japan)

Following the conclusion of my first postdoctoral position with INRIA, I joined the Quantum Architecture Unit at the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology (OIST), continuing my research in quantum information theory. My first project at OIST directly built on my previous research, using the VH-decoder in a practical application known as quantum multiplexing. This refers to a technique in quantum communication wherein multiple qubits of information can be encoded into a single photon using its various physical properties. This technique has the advantage of reducing physical resource requirements for sending encoded information, but the loss of a single photon results in the erasure of multiple qubits, making multiplexed systems more susceptible to erasure errors. However, this fragility can be mitigated by encoding qubits into photons in such a way that, with high probability, photon loss only results in correctable erasure errors. These decoder-aware encoding strategies exploit the underlying graph structure of the quantum code and decoding algorithm, counteracting the effect of multiplexed loss errors. In the best case, numerical simulations showed no degradation in performance when compared with the baseline no-multiplexing case. These results were published in the journal _Quantum_ in 2025.

In addition to my work in quantum error correction, my most recent research interests have centered around the study of _graph states_, a type of quantum state serving as a fundamental resource for measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC). Graph states are represented by graphs, wherein vertices denote qubits and edges denote entanglement through a controlled-Z (CZ) gate. Practical applications involving graph states are limited by the physical cost of state preparation, usually measured in terms of the preparation circuit by the number of CZ gates and the number of time steps (circuit depth). One technique for reducing resources is to prepare an equivalent graph state requiring fewer CZ gates and time steps, and then to transform it into a target state using local Clifford (LC) operations, which are far faster and less expensive than CZ operations. Two graph states related in this way are called _LC-equivalent_, and the collection of all equivalent states is known as the _LC orbit_. In this sense, optimizing the preparation of a target graph state can be reframed as identifying an optimal representative of the LC orbit.

This physical question about graph states can be interpreted as a mathematical question about graphs. There is a wealth of mathematical research into enumerating LC orbits, much of which relies on the _split decomposition_, a technique for dividing a graph into simpler components. The structure of this decomposition is preserved under LC operations, making it possible to enumerate LC-equivalent graphs in terms of transformations on components. Based on this idea, we developed a graph tool known as the _quotient-augmented strong split tree_ (QASST) for classifying LC orbits. This tool has proven especially useful for the class of distance-hereditary (DH) graphs, which have particularly simple components, and which also play an important role in communications theory. Using these techniques, we fully classified the LC orbits of several important classes of DH graphs such as complete multipartite graphs, identifying representatives. These results are currently under journal submission but are available as a preprint on ArXiv.

In addition to these theoretical results, we also leverage the QASST to propose a new preparation protocol for generic DH graph states known as the _split-fuse method_. The core idea of this technique is to prepare auxiliary graph states corresponding to split components, and then to fuse these into a target graph state. This requires introducing additional auxiliary qubits, but the number of CZ gates and time steps grow linearly with the system size for DH graphs. This method can be naturally generalized to non-DH graphs, providing an efficient graph state preparation protocol which does not rely on knowledge of the LC orbit. Numerical simulations show that this technique scales extremely well even for large qubit systems with thousands of CZ gates, making this an excellent application of the QASST tool for a practical problem in physics. This work is also in the process of journal submission with a preprint available on ArXiv.

## Future Research Directions

My research into graph states over the past year has borne a number of fruitful results and potential collaborations. Future research directions directly building on this work include the development of a graph-search algorithm for effectively exploring the LC orbit locally when entire space is not known. Another potential direction includes extending the question of LC-equivalent graphs to the related vertex minor problem, which has the strong potential for further practical applications relating graph states. In addition to my recent work with graph states, I am also still interested in research questions surrounding quantum error correction, where graph theory plays a fundamental role.
